This won't be directly told to the player, but can be mostly inferred through tidbits.

The game takes place on a single planet, unnamed.




I. Beginning of the Protos and their Cycle of Life

This planet developed life, having a fairly uniform temperature (by planetary scale) and an
environment not prone to constant severe upheavals. The life here formed very similarly to Earth's,
being both an oxygen-rich planet and containing large water reserves.

One key difference was a weak, ever-present electrical charge (ref. as Aura). It permeated the environment
due to a combination of constant atmospheric charge and a large deposit of trace minerals in the soil. The life that
formed under these conditions, naturally, could not form without some form of resilience or other defense against
both of these, as the Aura tended to disrupte any internal electrical signals and the mineral tended to
inhibit growth in most creatures (though not all).


	SIDE NOTE: These trace minerals are not natural to the planet's surface- the last great cycle of life was ended
	during heavy seismetic upheaval, which caused a non-trivial amount of the mineral to burst up to the surface.
	Later this mineral is referred to as 'geastl'. It's non-toxic, but impedes growth enough to be a detriment to most life.


While all beings that developed in the primordial soup did have such mechanisms, many also managed 
to harness this environmental effect to their benefit. Some species used the Aura as an additional,
minor source of energy to complement other sources such as feeding. One species, which later down the evolutionary tree
split into seperate sub-species, developed an especially useful internal mechanism.

This species, which I'll refer to internally as Protos, developed a method of dealing with the detriment of the geastl mineral
and constructively harnassing the latent atmospheric charge by funneling all consumed traces of geastl into a small liquid-filled chamber
near the center of their bio-mass. Here, the geastl was rendered harmless to the Protos, but also allowed them access to the
Aura it partially created. As a Proto grew up, this chamber filled with more geastl, which was compacted together
into microscopic, intricate latticework structures by the constant charge enacted on them, forming into cloudy amber crystals.

	REMINDER: geastl + eletrical source = weak electrical field between them, i.e. "Aura"




II. Vanishing of Geastl Deposits

As said before, geastl is not native to the planet's surface. As hundreds of thousand of years passed, no more significant deposits
were thrown to the surface, and the traces of it on land gradually disappeared into the ocean via the water cycle.

This caused a fluctuation in Aura, as the charge began to build up more heavily over the oceans, but dissipitate from
land entirely. The Protos and other species that had come to depend on this latent charge found themselves weaker by degrees
over the next several hundred years. At this point the Protos have a basic shamnistic society.

	SIDE NOTE: The evolution of the Protos to live with and use geastl and the Aura began at their primordial conception, over
		millions of years. This sudden decrease in geastl, however, became noticeable over only about 500 years- much too quickly
		for the Protos, or any race, to evolve a different way of life.

Near the beginning, when the change was first noticed, the Protos found a variety of cultural reasons for the phenomenon.
Coincidentally, among the many aspects of the dead they worshipped, the small crystal deposit of geastl found within the dead
was also revered. One of the Protos many ceremonies involved consuming this crystal. While before this had had no noticeable effect,
now with the weakening Aura, those Protos taking part in the ceremony began to show greater energy and strength than their kin.
As they now had a greater storage of geastl, they generated closely around them a greater (though still quite weak) field.
They were now favored by macro-evolution, as they lived longer and had greater chance to reproduce.

	SUMMATION: Protos and other races now indirectly fought for whatever geastl was left in the environment. Protos actually
	fought one another over the rights to consume their own dead in an effort to increase their geastl.




III. Side-Effects of Full-Geastl Consumption

Before this 'revelation', geastl had only been consumed by accident, mixed in with common foods. Now that the Protos began comsuming
already-formed crystals of geastl, they came to discover a number of side effects.

In the original Protos, as the crystal formed within them from micro-fragments of geastl, it was formed into its unique shape
by the charge enacted between it and the atmosphere, along with the chemical balances of the internal liquid it was floating in and any
internal charge created by the Proto's body.

This led to the Proto's geastl shard being uniquely formed depending on both it's chemical composition and somewhat by the electrical
signals produced during its lifetime - just an interesting sidenote?

But the reverse turned out to be true as well- upon consumption in younger Protos, full geastl shards from the dead reflected and stored charge
in such a way as to alter the chemical structures in the liquid, thus impacting the growth of the Proto a great deal.

This was first noticed, it was later reported by the Souless One, when a Proto known for his distinctive coloring died young without heirs,
leaving his friend his geastl. The friend was young enough that, a few years later, he began developing the same coloration, depesite it
not running in his family pack.

The physical and mental composition of a Proto due to Nature, not Nurture, tend to carry over about 80% of the time from the originator
of the geastl, and after a certain age, have little effect on how the Proto grows.

At ANY age, however, just having a geastl gives one a significant (though not enormous) surplus of physical vitality when compered to a standard
Proto, much as if humans, in addition to eating, could photosynthesize as plants do.

	NAMING CONVENTION: The mineral is known as "geastl", but given it's extreme rarity outside of a host, the term later comes to refer
		to that internal crystalline object Protos contain. Saying "geastl" or "geastl shard" refers to such a structure.
		Unformed geastl are either called just that, or a geastl 'fragment', meaning it hasn't been merged with other geastl inside a host.




IV. The Souless Arrive

It's at this point, about 800 years or so before Ogmios's time, that humans first arrive on this planet. Or rather, a human.

The Souless One was a human bio-engineer, fleeing the destruction of his species by themselves.

It doesn't take long for him to discover the Protos and become intrigued. Their form of ancestor-worship, consuming the
geastl of their kin, isn't unique, but the side-effects certainly are. Upon learning a Proto's geastl passes down not
just bodily manipulation, but also trace memories and feelings, SO is further intrigued- after all, biologic
reincarnation is, safe to say, quite unique.

SO's goal upon traveling here was to re-create his race, the 'Souless Ones' as the Proto's call them after a 
misunderstanding of SO's explanation. But he is quickly flummoxed by the fact there is no more geastl present on the surface- and
while he brought a great deal of technology, he did not possess either mining equipment or deep-sea exploration tools.

But there is a great deal of geastl, and very close by, which would also allow the new humans to adopt to their new planet quite
easily. And thus those among the Proto's in possession of a soul were slain, and the Souless One fled across the world with
his new hoard of souls, and began to fashion a new race of humans that, while they might physically die, would never truly perish.




V. Present Day

Unlike the Proto's, now known under a different name, the 7 hybrid races of the Souless One reproduce at human-like
rate; that is, quickly. Geastls aren't rare, per se, but many do not have one. These lesser ones are shunned as Souless, and
attribute their misfortune to a figure from their legend, a dark being known as the Souless One, who stole their souls.

Irony's funny, isn't it?



Haven't decided which, if any, of the 7 races will be the original Protos, who haven't made the connection between the SO and the other
6 races.

7 races: Badger, Hedgehog, Hare, Mouse, Mole, Fox, Wolf. Subject to change.

Still need new desc